Hey guys, what's up?
Matt here and today I just wanted to make a quick video to answer a question that I've been getting a lot recently, which is what do you think is the most ideal ratio between passive immersion and active immersion?
Now the short answer is I don't really think the ratio matters much at all.
The bottom line is that the more you do of each type of immersion, the more quickly that you're going to improve.
So let's take a step back real quick and define our terms.
So what do I really mean when I say active immersion versus passive immersion?
Well, I actually have a whole video on this topic that I made a couple years ago, so I'll put a link to that in the description, but the short summary is that active immersion is when you're sitting down and giving your full undivided attention to consuming something in your target language, whether that's sitting down and reading a book or sitting down and watching a TV show and just pausing and looking things up and making a real effort to try to understand what's happening.
Now you don't actually have to be sitting down while you do active immersion, but for whatever reason that's the image of active immersion that I have in my head.
On the other hand, we have passive immersion, which is where you're listening to something in your target language while you do another activity, whether that's cook or clean or commute or exercise.
Now the amount of attention that you're paying while doing passive immersion tends to fluctuate a lot moment to moment, but because in general, you're going to be doing passive immersion while engaging in a mindless activity like cooking or cleaning, it is possible to pay a pretty decent amount of attention to your target language while doing passive immersion.
Now there's also a third type of immersion called background immersion, which is where you put it much to just leave target language audio playing in the background and then ignore it and do totally other activities, but that's not really too relevant to this particular video.
Now in general, active immersion is more beneficial per minute than passive immersion is simply because you're paying more attention, you're looking things up and you're just doing more work.
So if you ever have an option between doing 10 more minutes of active immersion or 10 additional minutes of passive immersion, well, from a raw efficiency point of view, it's going to be better to pick the active immersion because you're going to improve more per minute while doing active rather than passive.
But the thing is, in general, we do passive immersion during times in our day where we wouldn't be able to do active immersion.
Like I said earlier, right?
Like when you're cooking, cleaning, exercising, these are all situations where it's not possible to do active immersion because by definition, active immersion is when you're not multitasking.
It's when you're giving your full, undivided attention just to the immersion.
And so when we're talking about times in our day where we're commuting, cooking, cleaning, these are things that we have to do.
We can't just not clean anymore or not commute anymore, but those are also times where we are not able to do active immersion.
So we're left with this choice of doing passive immersion or nothing.
And although active immersion is more beneficial per minute than passive immersion, passive immersion is much, much, much more beneficial per minute than no immersion at all.
So it's always better to just do passive immersion when you can and do active immersion when you can.
And this is why ratios aren't really applicable.
So here's another framework that you can use to think about it.
Let's say that we have this concept of immersion points and it takes a certain number of immersion points to get fluent in a foreign language.
Now let's say that you get four immersion points per minute when doing active immersion and you get one immersion point per minute when doing passive immersion.
Well, of course, if you have an option, you want to be doing active immersion because you're going to get more points for minute, which is going to move you closer to fluency.
But during situations where active immersion isn't possible, well, it's still better to do passive immersion than nothing because at least you're getting one point per minute and every four minutes, you basically have accumulated the equivalent of one minute worth of active immersion.
Now this ratio of four to one when it comes to the value of passive versus active is a little iffy.
It's hard to say exactly what the difference is because like I said before, the amount of attention that you're really paying while doing passive immersion tends to change quite a bit.
And also the more active immersion that you do in general, the more you're going to benefit from passive immersion.
But I think as a general framework, thinking of three to four minutes of passive immersion, being equivalent to around one minute of active immersion is probably an okay rule of thumb.
So in conclusion, the ratio between your active immersion and your passive immersion doesn't actually matter.
Just do active immersion when you can and when you can't do passive immersion.
And in general, the more you do of each, the more quickly that you'll move towards fluency.
I hope this little video was useful to you guys.
If it was, then please don't forget to like, subscribe and hit the bell.
Also, if you're interested, please check out the Mass Immersion Approach Patreon where you can find the beta release of new onki out-ons, a community of other people using MI8 to learn foreign languages, and also tens of hours of content of Q&A videos from myself.
So that's all for this video.
Thanks so much for watching and I'll catch you guys in the next one.